---
title: "SNARC effect"
date: 2021-01-10
permalink: /posts/2021/01/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Neuroscience
  - Life
  - Cultures
---

Have you ever paid atttention to the elevator panel and wondered why the buttons are arranged in such a way? Obviously it has much to do with the user experiecne (UX) design which aims to provide an user-friendly interface, but there is something lying behind: the SNARC effect.

The spatial-numerical association of response codes (SNARC) effect [1] states that there is a association between our spatial and numerical cognition. The studies show that generally people's responses involving smaller numbers, like 1 or 2, are faster with the left hand, while their responses involving larger numbers, like 8 or 9, are faster with the right hand. The phenomenon was explained by human's mental number line, just like the coordinate system we used to draw in the math class at school, so we may automatically assume that small numbers should lie on the left-hand side. However, it was observed that the SNARC effect is linked with the writing system. That is, the effect is true for people who are used to writing from left to right, but it is the other way aroung for people who write from right to left, like Arabians. For people whose native language is Chinese, things get more complicated, as the Chinsese characters can be written from top to bottom, left to right, or even right to left. Therefore, the buttons in the elevators may have different arrangements from culture to culture, so that people may easily find the right button with intuition. 

One interesting thing about scientific research is that we may find something along the way, something revealing our habits, cultural difference or even philosophy. While the SNARC effect tells us about our cognition and behaviors, it also implicitly shows us the importance of the acknowledgement of cultural difference. We should not expect other people to think or behave the same way, although there should be some rules that everyone can follow.

[1] Dehaene, Stanislas, Serge Bossini, and Pascal Giraux. "The mental representation of parity and number magnitude." Journal of experimental psychology: General 122.3 (1993): 371.
